<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Excel IF function – video transcript</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"
          href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@5.3.3/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css" />
</head>
<body>
    <div class="container my-4">
        <h1 class="mb-4">Video description – Excel IF function</h1>

        <p class="mb-3">
            The IF function is the most important logical function in Excel. The IF function is used
            to test for a condition and return one value if the condition is true, and another value
            if the condition is false.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            To illustrate how the IF function works, let&#39;s look at an example. Here we have a table
            of data that consists of item and quantity columns. Let&#39;s use the IF function to return
            a value of &quot;Reorder&quot; if the quantity is less than 10.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            To get started, let&#39;s begin by entering the IF command. As you can see, the IF function
            takes three parameters, with the last parameter being optional. The first parameter is
            the condition or value to test. In our example, we want to test to see if the value in
            cell B2 is less than 10, so we will enter B2 is less than 10 as the condition to test for.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            The second parameter we will need to enter is the value to return if the condition is
            true. In our example, we will enter the value &quot;Reorder&quot;. This means that if
            the value in cell B2 is less than 10, the IF function will return &quot;Reorder&quot;.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            The third parameter is optional. If provided, it contains the value that will be returned
            if the condition evaluates to false. To highlight a common mistake, we will leave this
            parameter out in our example.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            Now that we have entered all of the IF function&#39;s parameters, let&#39;s complete the command
            to examine the result. You should see the value &quot;Reorder&quot; appear in cell D2.
            Since cell B2 contains the value of seven, which is less than 10, the IF function will
            return &quot;Reorder&quot;.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            Now, let&#39;s copy our formula into cells D3 to D5.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            Notice that in cells D3 and D4, the value FALSE appears. Since we didn&#39;t specify a third
            parameter in our formula, the IF function will return FALSE when the condition evaluates
            to false. Many make the mistake of assuming that by leaving out the third parameter, the
            IF function will return a blank result when the condition is false. To avoid unexpected
            results, it is a good idea to always enter the third parameter.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            So, let&#39;s rewrite our formula to return a blank value when the condition evaluates to
            false. In cell E2, we will enter our IF command and again use B2 is less than 10 for the
            first parameter, and &quot;Reorder&quot; for the second parameter. This time, however,
            we will enter two quotation marks as a third parameter. This represents a blank value
            or empty string.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            Now, let&#39;s complete the command and copy our formula into cells E3 to E5.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-3">
            This time we can see that instead of returning FALSE for rows 3 and 4, the IF function
            has returned a blank cell. So, when you write your IF function, remember to include both
            the value to return when the condition is true, as well as the value to return when the
            condition is false.
        </p>

        <p class="mb-4">
            This completes our example of how to use Excel&#39;s IF function. If you would like to see
            more IF examples or would like to download the sample data we used for this tutorial,
            please visit our website at <span lang="en">techonthenet.com</span>. If you found our
            tutorial helpful, please leave a like on this video and don&#39;t forget to subscribe to our
            YouTube channel for more great Excel tutorials.
        </p>

        <p class="mt-4">
            <a href="fuggvenyek.html"
               class="btn btn-secondary"
               xml:lang="hu"
               lang="hu">Vissza a függvények oldalra</a>
        </p>
    </div>
</body>
</html>
